Exercise 2 - Fundamental Variables

 Objective:
 To experiment with some of the basic variable types within Python and some of their operations.

 Questions:

    1. This exercise carries out some basic operations on variables.
    a) Create a new script called ex2.py

    b) Create two variables, one containing your first name and another
    containing your last name. Display them using print.

    c) Now transfer these variable values into a list and display the list,

    d) Take the variables and now store the values in a dictionary, using keys ‘first’
    and "last". Display the dictionary values.

    ..and execute the script ex2.py.

    2. Now we'll try some object methods. Create a Python script (call it ex2_2.py if
    you like) with the following line:

    var = input("Please enter a value: ")

    This is an easy way of outputting a prompt to the console and getting a reply.
    The variable var is a reference to that reply, which is a string.

    Now print the following:

    a) The value of var as upper case.

    b) The number of characters in var (this does not require a method).
    c) Does it contain numeric characters? (try the isdecimal() method).
    QA Python 3 Programming | QARPYTH3 v2.4

    If time allows...

    3. The height of a projectile (v) from a gun (ignoring air resistance) is given as:

    gx?
    Y=Yo+xtan@-
    2(vo cos 6F

    where:

    g Acceleration due to gravity: 9.81 m/s squared
    Vo :theinitial velocity m/s

    0 (theta) elevation angle in radians

    X :the horizontal distance travelled

    Yo height of the barrel (m)

    Write a Python program to answer the following question:

    At a barrel height of Im, after a horizontal distance of 0.5m, an elevation of 80
    degrees, and an initial velocity of 44 m/s, what is the height of the projectile?

    To convert degrees (deg) to radians use:
    theta = deg * (pi/180)

    You will need to import some math methods:
    fromm math import pi, tan, cos

    There will be a further if time allows question which expands on this code after the
    Collections chapter.
    QA Python 3 Programming | QARPYTH3 v2.4

    4. Create a new program called Fl.py, it will explore some of the mathematics
    involved in managing a Formula 1 racing car.

    The task of this program (at first), is to answer a question:
    Q. "During a race of 45 laps, what is the minimum fuel requirement?"

    You will need to know the fuel consumption found during the race qualifying,
    which is 2.25 kg for each lap.

    5. In this exercise, we'll make a few more modifications to Fl.py. First, we'll add an
    extra fuel load, and then we're going to calculate the lap time based on the
    weight of fuel, which naturally decreases each lap.

    a. Inthe previous exercise, we worked out the minimum fuel requirement for a
    45-lap race and stored this in a variable named fuel_requirement. To fill the
    tank with the absolute minimum amount of fuel would be foolhardy, and not
    allow the drivers any margin for manoeuvre. Typically, a car will carry an extra
    50% for contingency (multiply the minimum by 1.5). So what fuel will be carried
    by our fictional F1 car at the start of the race?

    Modify your Fl.py program to calculate this.

    b. You might think it odd that fuel is measured in kilograms rather than litres or
    gallons. This is because the weight of fuel is critical to the way a Formula One
    car performs.

    The qualifying lap time was 80.45 seconds, but that was with only 5kg of fuel:
    each 10 kg of fuel increases the lap time by 0.35 seconds.

    What will be the lap time for the first lap with all the required fuel on board?